# Energy Forecasting of Smart House Using CNN-LSTM networks

## Mr Nitin Nandeshwar
### 10 Feburary 2020

## Introduction:
Nowadays, the Implementation of IoT is becoming more and more prevalent. IoT reflects the logical transformation of the cloud and big data: empowering sensor-equipped devices to interact in real, actionable ways with one another. The IoT-related service market for many industries, such as Chemical and Petroleum (C&P), E&U and Remote Healthcare, will, therefore, continue to grow dramatically.
As IDC[1] estimates, the number of devices connected to the Internet, including the machines, sensors, and cameras that make up the Internet of Things (IoT), continues to grow at a steady pace and there will be 41.6 billion connected IoT devices, or “things” generating 79.4 zettabytes (ZB) of data in 2025.IDC projects that during the 2018 to 2025 period, the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 28.7% will be seen due to data generated by connected IoT devices.

## Research Area: 
Due to the increase in its demand, energy is considered one of the most essential and valuable resources available to mankind. According to a US Energy Information Administration (EIA) report [2], Household appliances consume nearly 40 % of generated energy.
Besides, in a study of [3] energy consumption of household appliances like TVs and air conditioners when they are not in use, still contributed to the loss of unnecessary electricity consumption of about 10.2%.
Research Question:
Currently, the home electric-energy bill causes a problem for human beings in modern cities. Many home appliances are available and to some extent are necessary for moderate life. Some appliance failures can go unnoticed. Careful monitoring and management of these appliances according to weather conditions can save the user a great deal of money.
## Objectives:
In this paper, I am going to use the time series forecasting algorithm to forecast energy usage of the residential houses per day/month according to the weather condition. By predicting the energy consumption of residential homes using IoT sensors data can help us to identify an irregular trend in energy consumption of different household appliances. 
## Methodology:
The energy consumption in residential homes has a significant association with the lifestyles of residents.A resident, for example, may have a fairly consistent daily routine such as taking a shower before breakfast or a night shower before sleep, etc. Besides, the energy consumption of appliances in residential homes is influenced by several factors, including the attic ventilation, number of household appliances, use of appliances, local climate, occupant activities, weekday and special events.
In the work of NaeemAl-Oudat [4], the authors propose an IoT standalone board consist of a microcontroller, Wireless module and current sensor which is connected in series with each appliance in a house. This integration provides a control layer for the overall energy usage and ensures that each device functions properly by monitoring of its current range. Each outlet and switch inside the house is controlled around the clock for power consumption. Also, Vastardis et al.[5] identified a centralized architecture for tracking energy consumption in homes including pattern matching features related to target user's behavioral habits.
In the work of Tuchsanai Ploysuwan [6], the author propose CNN & LSTM networks by stacking designed CNNs for feature learning of data features and LSTM layers are introduced for time series in appliances energy consumption forecasting.
So based on the dataset obtained from Kaggle[7], I can use the time series forecasting model, can forecast usage of a particular appliance in particular weather conditions which will help any user and organization to manage energy consumption usage.
## Conclusion
So using the data obtained from Kaggle, I am going to forecast the energy consumption of residential homes using  GBM(Gradient Boosting Machine), random forest, support vector machine, CNN and LSTM.
## References:
[1]	“The Growth in Connected IoT Devices Is Expected to Generate 79.4ZB of Data in 2025, According to a New IDC Forecast,” IDC: The premier global market intelligence company. [Online]. Available: https://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=prUS45213219. [Accessed: 06-Mar-2020].

[2]	“U.S. Energy Information Administration - EIA - Independent Statistics and Analysis.” [Online]. Available: https://www.eia.gov/outlooks/aeo/data/browser/#/?id=4-AEO2020&region=0-0&cases=ref2020&start=2018&end=2050&f=A&linechart=&chartindexed=0&sourcekey=0. [Accessed: 06-Mar-2020].

[3]	S. Firth, K. Lomas, A. Wright, and R. Wall, “Identifying trends in the use of domestic appliances from household electricity consumption measurements,” Energy Build., vol. 40, no. 5, pp. 926–936, Jan. 2008, doi: 10.1016/j.enbuild.2007.07.005.

[4]	N. Al-Oudat, A. Aljaafreh, M. Saleh, and M. Alaqtash, “IoT-Based Home and Community Energy Management System in Jordan,” Procedia Comput. Sci., vol. 160, pp. 142–148, Jan. 2019, doi: 10.1016/j.procs.2019.09.454.

[5]	N. Vastardis, M. Kampouridis, and K. Yang, “A user behaviour-driven smart-home gateway for energy management,” J. Ambient Intell. Smart Environ., vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 583–602, Nov. 2016.


[6]	T. Ploysuwan, “Deep CNN LSTM network for appliances energy forecasting in residential houses using IoT sensors,” in 2019 7th International Electrical Engineering Congress (iEECON), 2019, pp. 1–4, doi: 10.1109/iEECON45304.2019.8938914.

[7]	“Smart Home Dataset with weather Information | Kaggle.” [Online]. Available: https://www.kaggle.com/taranvee/smart-home-dataset-with-weather-information. [Accessed: 09-Mar-2020].
